Impromptu Google Meet Meeting - April 22
VIEW RECORDING - 12 mins (No highlights): https://fathom.video/share/cNEX8m3s1mbYxESH-byKiGsEKNdxH3Q3

---

0:04 - Neha Doda
  No, no, it's okay because actually I just turned it off because I wanted to restart my computer because my camera was not working, so I just turned it off.

0:18 - Kousalya 
  Yeah, Neha, how was your week?

0:22 - Neha Doda
  Yeah, it was good, although I'm like having some cold.

0:30 - Kousalya 
  Yeah, take care. Neera, thank you so much. How long have you been in Sweden? No, actually, I'm currently working remote from India.  Okay, okay, you're working from India. So it's like around 8.

0:56 - Neha Doda
  Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's 8. So did you get any information about the like our meeting on Saturday or Sunday because like we need to plan accordingly yeah yeah no Neha okay you don't have an update for that

2:39 - Kousalya 
  Thank you. Hello, Filip.

4:07 - Filip Cedermark
  Hello, can you hear me?

4:10 - Kousalya 
  Hi, Filip.

4:12 - Filip Cedermark
  Yes, can you hear me? I can hear you.

4:19 - Neha Doda
  Good.

4:24 - Kousalya 
  Yeah, Filip, how are you?

4:25 - Neha Doda
  How was your week? Yeah, thank you.

4:28 - Filip Cedermark
  I'm doing well, I think. You may have heard that last week was a bit difficult for me outside of work, but I've been able to pick it up a bit these days, so it's been good.  I'm making progress, and I'm starting to look into dbt more a bit now after the session.

5:43 - Kousalya 
  Yeah, like, do you guys want to talk about anything?

5:51 - Neha Doda
  Yeah, we can talk. Are we expecting, like, a book as well? Or is there any information? What about them?

6:01 - Kousalya 
  No, speak a bit more.

6:12 - Filip Cedermark
  I'm looking a bit into Dbity, which is like a not really like a language per se, but like a framework, which you use SQL.

6:26 - Kousalya 
  Yeah, I also explored a little about it.

6:30 - Neha Doda
  I actually installed it on my like computer because I think it works with Visual Studio. Yeah, exactly.

6:40 - Filip Cedermark
  I haven't done anything yet.

6:43 - Neha Doda
  I just like read about it that it works on SQL for transforming data. Yeah, so I thought like I can link it with my profile because I'm already doing data analytics using Power BI.  So. It's a good idea to learn transformations through dbt.

7:05 - Filip Cedermark
  Yeah, they're gonna do something similar, but more for like the modeling part, because I have worked with dbt a little bit in one of my previous internships, like very small, like exposure to it, but not very deep.

7:22 - Neha Doda
  So I'm gonna also be using it in visual code and trying to connect it to my Databricks environment or like, Yeah, and Databricks was also like a new thing because I haven't explored that yet as well.  So I like learned a little bit about that as well, because it's also like a good thing to upscale.  So yeah, I read a little about it also because it's a free edition and I think it's a great way to learn.  time. Thank

8:00 - Filip Cedermark
  Through Databricks. Yeah, I agree. It's very frequently used in a lot of places from what I've seen, like from when I was applying to jobs, a bunch of them were using Databricks or Databricks on top of some other like environment.  So I think being at least familiar with it is very good.

8:21 - Neha Doda
  Yeah, because I earlier started before like starting this internship, I was looking into Microsoft Fabric. But that's Microsoft doesn't provide like any free environment for free edition for learning learners.
  ACTION ITEM: Email Sanjeev re: Databricks vs dbt focus - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/cNEX8m3s1mbYxESH-byKiGsEKNdxH3Q3?timestamp=517.9999  But Databricks is almost a similar platform to learn. So I thought it's, it should be like added to my profile.  So, so I will just talk with Sanjeev if it's, it's relevant and like, I should go for it or not, or whether I should choose dbt.  for my profile.

9:01 - Filip Cedermark
  Yeah, mean, you can do both because like a Databricks is more of like an environment and dbt is like a way to write code.  So you can you can definitely do both. There's like no issue.

9:14 - Neha Doda
  Yeah, when I was thinking the same that both can be explored at the same time. Absolutely, I think so at least.  But I would like to focus on one at one time. So I just need to figure out that what I need to like focus on first.  So yeah, that's fair. If it's coming, think then we can just wind it up because we don't have so much to talk about.  Do you have anything to talk about, Filip?

10:11 - Kousalya 
  Nothing really more than what I've already said.

10:16 - Filip Cedermark
  Saving most of it for the Saturday meeting.

10:21 - Kousalya 
  Yeah, and also like last weekend I forgot. This weekend maybe in the Saturday meeting we can discuss regarding the timings of this meeting.  And since like most of the members will be present, we can have a nice, we can decide on the time properly.

10:38 - Filip Cedermark
  Yeah, sounds good.

10:43 - Kousalya 
  Okay, then we can wind it up. Yes.

10:46 - Filip Cedermark
  All right. Have a nice evening and talk to you again on Saturday.

10:50 - Kousalya 
  Yes, see you again on Saturday.

10:52 - Neha Doda
  Bye bye. Bye.

11:06 - Kousalya 
  Hey, hey, Deepika, you just missed Fathom and Neha. have just left. Okay, okay, no problem.
  ACTION ITEM: Ask Raj re: Deepika's Slack removal; request re-add - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/cNEX8m3s1mbYxESH-byKiGsEKNdxH3Q3?timestamp=676.9999

11:13 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Always in late time, we do call. Apologies for it.

11:19 - Kousalya 
  Yeah, like this weekend, we'll decide in the morning, like if any, like before your classes, around 11 or so.

11:25 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Okay, sure, sure. And also like I got removed from that Slack channel course.

11:31 - Kousalya 
  Yeah, I thought like there might be some issues from your side. I'll ask Raj regarding that.

11:36 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Okay, okay, because there is some, something called workspace looks like it ran on free trial for 14 days or something like that.  So after that, like it got removed.

11:45 - Kousalya 
  Yeah, I also like, I also like tried to, I thought like after this meeting I'll message you because I thought you would join.

11:52 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  I thought like I will move this call, like I didn't give you. Yeah, yeah. Okay.

11:58 - Kousalya 
  I'll ask Raj regarding that. For sure, thank you so much.

12:01 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
  Okay, yeah. Bye, Kousalya.